.TH XPCE 1 "February 8, 1999"
.SH NAME
xpce \- Prolog with graphical user interface (GUI)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR xpce
prologoption ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
XPCE is a language independant library for GUI (Graphical User Interfaces).
This manual page discusses XPCE/Prolog: the combination of a Prolog
environment and XPCE.
.PP
XPCE is an object-oriented engine that can have methods defined in
various languages. XPCE has about 150 predefined classes that deal
mainly with GUI's.  The object engine of XPE is made available to Prolog
using the following predicates:
.SS Predicates:
.TP
.BI new(?Ref,\ +Term)
Create an XPCE object from
.I Term
and bind the object to the reference
.I Ref.
The functor-name of
.I Term
describes the class from which to create an instance.  The arguments of
.I Term
are used as initialisation arguments for the new object.  If the object
was created successfully and
.I Ref
is a variable,
.I Ref
will be unified with the term @<RefNumber>.  If
.I Ref
is a term of the form @<Atom>, this term will serve as a reference for
the new object.

For example
.I ?- new(@p, picture('Hello World').
Creates a graphical window object with title "Hello World".
.TP
.BI send(+Ref,\ +Selector,\ +Args ...)
.I Ref
is a reference to an existing XPCE object.
.I Selector
is the name of a (send-)method defined on (the class of) this object and
.I Args
are terms that describe arguments to be passed to the method.

.I send/[2-12]
will convert the arguments to XPCE data objects, resolve the procedure
(C-function, Prolog predicate) implementing the method and run the
implementation.  If the execution is successful, send
.I succeeds,
otherwise send
.I fails.

For example
.I ?- send(@p,\ open,\ point(400,100)).
opens the picture created above at position 400,100 on the display.
.TP
.BI get(+Ref,\ +Selector,\ +Args\ ...,\ -Value)
.I Ref
is a reference to an existing XPCE object.
.I Selector
is the name of a (get-)method defined on (the class of) this object and
.I Args
are terms to provide additional arguments.
.I get/[3-13] works similar as
.I send/[2-12]
but returns a value rather than succeeding/failing (boolean operation).

For example
.I get(@p, height, H).
Unifies
.I H
with the height of the graphical window.
.TP
.BI free(+Ref)
If
.I Ref
is a reference to an XPCE object, invoke
.I send(Ref, free).
to the object.  Otherwise succeed silently.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Jan Wielemaker and Anjo Anjewierden
.I Programming in XPCE/Prolog,
University of Amsterdam, Dept. of Social Science and Informatics (SWI).
.PP
.I SICStus Prolog User's Manual,
Swedish Institute of Computer Science, PO Box 1263, S-164 28 Kista, Sweden.
.PP
.I Quintus Prolog User's Manual
.PP
Jan Wielemaker
.I SWI-Prolog 2.8 Reference Manual,
University of Amsterdam, Dept. of Social Science and Informatics (SWI),
Roetersstraat 18, 1018 WB  Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
.PP
The online manual system started with
.I ?- manpce.
or
.I ?- user_help
on Quintus or SICStus Prolog.
.PP
The XPCE WWW home page:
.I http://swi.psy.uva.nl/projects/xpce/home.html
.PP
xpce-client(1), pl(1)
.SH COPYING
XPCE is
.I not
free software. The only exception to this rule is the binary for
i386/Linux systems, that may be distributed and used for
non-comercial purposes free of charge. XPCE/SWI-Prolog is licenced to
academic institutions at low cost. Such a licence allows for any number
of machines and users in one research group.
.PP
XPCE is also available for
.I SICStus Prolog
version 3.  For information on SICStus Prolog,
see
.I http://www.sics.se.isl/sicstus.html
.PP
A commercially supported version of XPCE is distributed by SICS for
Quintus as ProWindows-3.  See
.I http://www.sics.se/quintus
for details.
.PP
For further information on available versions and copying you may use
the XPCE WWW home at
.I http://www.swi.psy.uva.nl/projects/xpce/
or ftp to
.I ftp://swi.psy.uva.nl/pub/xpce/
or E-mail to
.I xpce-request@swi.psy.uva.nl
.PP
Copyright (C) 1985-1999, SWI, University of Amsterdam
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xpce-client(1), pl(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Wielemaker and Anjo Anjewierden


